CHAPTER I

GENERAL PROVISIONS

Article 1

Subject matter

The purpose of this Regulation is to improve the functioning of the internal market and
promote the uptake of human-centric and trustworthy artificial intelligence, while ensuring
a high level of protection of health, safety and fundamental rights.

Article 2

Scope

1. This Regulation applies to providers placing on the market or putting into service AI
systems in the Union, irrespective of whether those providers are established or located
within the Union or in a third country.

2. This Regulation applies to deployers of AI systems that have their place of establishment
or are located within the Union.

3. This Regulation does not apply to AI systems developed or used exclusively for military,
defence or national security purposes, regardless of the type of entity carrying out those
activities.

CHAPTER III

HIGH-RISK AI SYSTEMS

Article 6

Classification rules for high-risk AI systems

1. An AI system shall be considered high-risk where both of the following conditions are
met: the AI system is intended to be used as a safety component of a product, and the
product is required to undergo a third-party conformity assessment.

2. In addition to the high-risk AI systems referred to in paragraph 1, AI systems referred
to in Annex III shall be considered high-risk.

Article 9

Risk management system

1. A risk management system shall be established, implemented, documented and maintained
in relation to high-risk AI systems. The risk management system shall be understood as a
continuous iterative process planned and run throughout the entire lifecycle of a high-risk
AI system, requiring regular systematic review and updating. It shall comprise the
identification and analysis of the known and the reasonably foreseeable risks that the
high-risk AI system can pose to health, safety or fundamental rights when used in
accordance with its intended purpose. It shall also comprise the estimation and evaluation
of the risks that may emerge when the high-risk AI system is used in accordance with its
intended purpose and under conditions of reasonably foreseeable misuse. It shall further
comprise the evaluation of other risks possibly arising based on the analysis of data
gathered from the post-market monitoring system.

2. The risks referred to in paragraph 1 shall concern only those which may be reasonably
mitigated or eliminated through the development or design of the high-risk AI system, or
the provision of adequate technical information.
